ARNode assumptions:
1)
ARNodes are only connected to other ARNode

2)
ARNodes would contain only nodes from the same table which are set in stone

3)
ARNodes can merge with other ARNode, split and change location

4)
ARNodes would not split or merge unless they are fully activated

5)
arnodes have only three activation status: not activated, forward (partially) activated, fully activated

forward activated entails that
a) all the arnodes which this arnode should be connected to via an outgoing connection have been created

fully activated entails that
a) the arnodes that have outgoing connections (which are incoming) to this node must be forward activated
b) the arnodes that we are connected to by outgoing connections will be fully activated

6)
-> Node assumptions (5)

7)
when arnode is first created, if its given a single node to start with it can remain in any activation status as needed.
but if its created with more than a single node, it must be immediately fully activated.
also, all arnode which are created in the process of splitting and merging must be immediately fully activated

8)
until an arnode is fully activated, its global variables would be determined by the first node in the node group
it contains. but when its fully activated all of the inner nodes global data would be erased and recalculated only
for the arnode which contains them. i.e. once the arnode that a node is nested in gets fully activated, the node loses
all right to determine what the values of its global data would be.

I'll show that this assumption is both necessary for the correct function of the system, does not interfere with
any other related assumption, and does not have any inner inconsistencies:
if an arnode (with one or more initial nodes) is created in the process of merging or splitting,
then from assumption (7) it would immediately be fully activated, and as such this assumption (8) won't matter for it.

otherwise if an arnode must be created with only one initial node, and is not fully activated, then by the definition
of full activation one or more of the following holds:
a)
the inner node could not have come from from another arnode which erased its global data, since this would imply
that the inner node was in a fully activated arnode before, and as such this arnode was created when the other arnode
split, and as such from assumption (7) this arnode should be immediately fully activated.

b)
the arnode does not "care" what happens to nodes which are connected to its inner node by an incoming
connection. in other words the arnode does not care about it incoming connections.
an arnode must contain only a preprocessed node, but the nodes which are incoming to this preprocessed node have no
restriction on them and as such could be unprocessed nodes. i.e. the nodes with incoming connections to us could change.
because the equation of the node can change when its incoming connections are being preprocessed, and only the inner
node would know about it (since, again, the arnode knows nothing about its incoming connections and won't be notified
when such a connection changed), we will simply give the control over global events to the inner nodes

9)
(a conclusion from layer assumption (9) )
an arnode does not necessarily have to be connected to only arnodes with the same table number.
on the face of it it seems like this should be the case since table number corresponds to type (pos-inc,...).
but the problem is that in layer 0 the never categorize (or split) the input nodes, so those nodes and their arnodes,
would be connected to a plethora of tables.

10)
an inner node can only be attributed to one arnode at a time. i.e. nodes can not appear in different arnodes

11)
-> Table assumption (5)

12)
-> Node assumption (11)